# Installation instructions

First of all, you'll need to install [Docker](https://www.docker.com/) (used as
a sandbox for running the tests).

Create an empty dir that we'll be the **base dir**, download and unpack the
[latest release](https://github.com/scythe-suite/scythe/releases/latest) of the
`scythe.tgz`, `exercises.tgz`, `confs.tgz`, and `harvests.tgz` archives; you can
accomplish such task manually, or just executing the following command in the
shell

    curl -sL https://git.io/install-scythe | bash

Every time you'll need to use this tool, just go to the *base dir* and set the
required environment variables using

    source ./setenv.sh

Note that if you use [direnv](https://direnv.net/) just link `setenv.sh` to
`.envrc` and direnv will take care of this step for you!

Now setup your local configurations: go in the newly created `confs` dir and
move `confs.sh-template` to `confs.sh`, then edit the first lines of such file

    export SCYTHE_TESTER_ID="<YOUR_NAME_HERE>"
    export SCYTHE_USER="<REMOTE_USER_HERE>"
    export SCYTHE_SERVER="<REMOTE_HOST_HERE>"

to reflect your username, and the credentials for the deploy site. Observe
that you will probably need also to edit the files under `confs/basebundle` dir
to reflect your local exam setup (i.e., the `README` files, and the support
commands under the `bin` subdirectoryâ€¦).

You are ready to install the various dependencies (this must be done the first
time you use the tool, or when an update of any of the dependencies is issued):
simply run

    scythe upgrade

this will download and install for you the latest releases of
[scythe](https://github.com/scythe-suite/scythe),
[tristo-mietitore](https://github.com/scythe-suite/tristo-mietitore),
[sim-fun-i](https://github.com/scythe-suite/sim-fun-i),
[scythe-tester](https://github.com/scythe-suite/scythe-tester),
[scythe-viewer](https://github.com/scythe-suite/scythe-viewer),  and
[md2html](https://github.com/scythe-suite/md2html); it will moreover pull the latest [scythe/rewebdis](https://hub.docker.com/r/scythe/rewebdis/) and
[scythe/testrunner](https://hub.docker.com/r/scythe/testrunner/) Docker images.

## A simple test

The unzipped example configuration and exercises should allow a simple test: run

    source ./setenv.sh
    scythe prepare example
    scythe test example
    scythe view example

this should generate `./confs/example.py` and `./confs/example-r.py`, the
configuration files, then run the test on the example harvets and finally view
the results. This steps do not involve the external server and should work
correctly even if the Scythe server has not been configured.

## Save your work!

If you want to edit and keep track of your configuration and exercises you are
suggested to turn `confs` and `exercises` into git repositories (after removing
the example exam configuration, exercises, and harvests).
